---
layout: post
title: "Customizing blog using pagd"
permalink: pagd-customizing.html
---

Read this [article](./blog-with-pagd.html) to know how to set up your blog
site with [pagd][pagd-link] and host it using [github][github-link].
Continue reading if you want to customize your site with pagd.

Adding fonts with google-webfonts
---------------------------------

Pagd by default comes with inconsolata font from
[google-webfonts][google-webfonts-link]. Pagd templates will load all
font references from `config.json` file present under your layout's root
directory. Just append the reference URL to the list of `google_webfonts`.
To apply one of the loaded fonts to page's <body> element - set the
`font-family` attribute in config.json.  The `style` property object in
config.json will be converted to a string of semi-colon separated list of
CSS properties and applied to page's body element as its style attribute.

```json
    { "google_webfonts" : [
       "http://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Inconsolata"
      ],
      "style" : {
          "font-family" : "Inconsolata"
      }
    }
```

Note that above settings are global to all pages in the site. If you want to
customize the fonts for specific elements in the page, then you must customize
them using `media/myblog.css`.

Let your readers mail you directly
----------------------------------

Pagd can generate a `mailto:` hyper-reference at the bottom of every blog
article, if you provide `email` meta-data for your pages. If you are
managing your site with git or mercurial then, you can add your email-id as
part of `.gitconfig` or `.hgrc` file. Otherwise, you can simply add your
email id along with the page content as meta data, like,

```rst
:title: <Page title for this blog article>
:author: prataprc
:email: <emailid>

...
rest of the content
...
```

Note if you are not providing your email id as part of repository meta-data,
they you will have add it manually for every blog article that you are
creating under `_contents` sub-directory.

Copyright
---------

Add your copyright information in `config.json` file placed under your site
layout's root directory, for eg.,

```json
{ "copyright" : "&copy; 2013 Pratap Chakravarthy" }
```


Advanced customization
----------------------

Once you are comfortable adding pages under `_contents/` directory and
managing your `config.json`, you must go through [pagd][pagd-link] package
documentation and learn now pagd.myblog layout is organized. Subsequently
you can alter your site layout either using CSS or directly by changing the
template files. This section gives a short introduction on them.

Customizing with CSS
--------------------

Html elements generated by `pagd.myblog` template are selectable using CSS id
and class names. Under your site-layout, `media/myblog.css` file contains
the necessary styling attributes for your pages. It is generally divided into,

- CSS reset declarations.
- standard element styling applicable to all pages.
- targeted styling for specific html elements.

You can freely modify / add / remove CSS declaration as it suites your site.

Customizing with templates
--------------------------

All template files for `pagd.myblog` layout can be found under
`_templates/` sub-directory and uses [tayra][tayra-link] templating language
to describe them. Experimental support is available for mako and jinja2
templates, but use them only if you are well-versed with pagd-tool. Pages
generated by `pagd.myblog` layout plugin is made up of three parts, header,
container and footer.

- `index.ttl` directly maps to `_contents/index.<format>` file. This
  template is used only for the index-page.

- `_default.ttl` template will be used for all other pages, if a matching
  template is not found for a page under _contents/ sub-directory.

- `_head.ttl` will go under <head> element of the page. Both index.ttl and
  _default.ttl templates include them.

- `_header.ttl` constitute the header portion of site pages. You can add your
  site-wide navigation links inside this template file.

- `_footer.ttl` constitute the footer portion of site pages. You can add
  acknowledgments, copyright notice under this template.

- `_social.ttl` adds social sharing features for your site. Uses
  `social_sharing` configuration parameter from `config.json`.

- `_social/` add all html snippets that you obtain from disqus, twitter,
  facebook etc...  under this directory.

To keep a tab on [pagd][pagd-link] - follow [project at github][pagd-gh-link]
and post your queries to their [mailing-list][mailing-link].


[pagd-link]: http://pythonhosted.org/pagd
[github-link]: http://github.com
[mailing-link]: http://groups.google.com/group/pluggdapps
[tayra-link]: http://pythonhosted.org/tayra
[google-webfonts-link]: http://google.com/webfonts
