---
layout: post
title: "Pagd: Social interfaces within pagd"
permalink: pagd-social.html
category: tech
---

Read this [article](./blog-with-pagd.html) to know how to set up your blog
site with [pagd][pagd-link] and host it using [github][github-link].
Continue reading if you want to know how to add social features like
tweet-buttons, facebook-likes or commenting system to your site.

Comments and social sharing with disqus
---------------------------------------

Normally it is better to encourage discussions through open networks like
mailing-list, IRC, twitter etc... If in case you want your readers to discuss
your topic on the same page, you can do so by including the disqus plugin. But
please note that comments will be saved on disqus server and are subjected to
their policies.

To enable disqus plugin for all your pages, change `disqus` attribute in
your layout's config.json file,

```json
{ "disqus" : true }
```

You should also [sign-up with disqus](https://disqus.com/admin/signup/) and
copy the html snippet that they generate for you into the template file,
`_templates/_social/disqus.html`, under your site-layout.

When you regenerate the site after this, you will find disqus commenting
system added to your pages.

Easy sharing with social network
--------------------------------

All most every social network site come with a share-button that you can
integrate in your pages. This is quite helpful because there is a good chance
that your readers are active in one of them and can share your page with
his/her network at the click of a button.

First add a list of share buttons (or interfaces provided by the social
network) in your `config.json` file

```json
{ "social_sharing" : "twitter,fb,hn,linkedin,gplus" }
```

Above example adds, Twitter, FaceBook, HackerNews, LinkedIn, Google+ social
buttons to my blog-pages. Note that the comma separated names mentioned above,
like `hn`, `fg` etc must correspond to a file-name under your
site's template sub-directory. Before we get into that, first obtain the HTML
snippet that will integrate your pages with a social network, say for instance
Twitter network. Once you have them just save them under the file
`_templates/_social/twitter.html`. Likewise repeat this exercise for all the
networks listed under `social_sharing`.

When you regenerate the site after this, you will find find social buttons
at the bottom of every blog article.

Sometimes social buttons generated by social-networking sites will have
styling attributes that don't blend with rest of the page. In such cases you
can manually change the container styling for these button using
`media/myblog.css` file under your site-layout.

To keep a tab on [pagd][pagd-link] - follow [project at github][pagd-gh-link]
and post your queries to their [mailing-list][mailing-link].

[pagd-link]: http://pythonhosted.org/pagd
[github-link]: http://github.com
[mailing-link]: http://groups.google.com/group/pluggdapps
